---
description: Learn the language of Zesty.io.
---

# Glossary

## Account Settings

The Account Settings, accessed through the accounts interface, allow users to update their profile, email, password, and other preferences.

## Accounts Interface \(also see [Instances Dashboard](https://zesty.org/glossary#instances-dashboard)\)

The Accounts Interface is accessed after a user logs in to Zesty.io, [https://accounts.zesty.io](https://accounts.zesty.io). It allows users to access all their instances, custom blueprints, teams, account settings, and more.

## Audit Trail Section

The Audit Trail section shows a log of actions \(such as creating a new item, adding a field to a content model, publishing items, etc.\) that users have taken in an instance.

## Blueprint

A Blueprint is the starting content, content models, and files for a new instance.

## Content Dashboard

The Content Dashboard is the content manager interface homescreen that shows a business overview of analytics, "Recently Edited" items, and "Platform Updates". This dashboard also provides access to all of the current content entries through the left hand column.

## Content Entry Editing View

The Content Entry Editing View is the view in the Content Tab where the data for an individual entry is viewed and edited.

## Content Manager Interface

The Content Manager Interface is where a user can manage their instance's content and the website or endpoints that content is distributed through. Each unique instance in Zesty.io has it's own content management interface and is connected to a single domain for publishing.

## Content Models

Content Models is a collection of content entries with shared settings and defined fields. Content models can be a single page, page group or dataset.

## Content Section

The Content Section \(formerly called content tab\) is the sections of Zesty.io where users can create, modify and delete content entries.

## Create New Entry View

The Create New Entry View is a view for creating a new entry for a content model with all fields blank, with their autogenerated value, or their default value.

## Custom Blueprint Overview

The Custom Blueprint Overview allows users to review and edit a blueprint or fork a blueprint repo.

## Custom Blueprints Dashboard

The Custom Blueprints Dashboard is the view of all of a user's custom blueprints.

## Display Name/name\_friendly

This is the field label shown in the Content section. This should be a description shown to content users who will be managing content.

## Editor Section

The Editor Section \(formerly called Editor Tab\) is where the HTML, Endpoints, CSS and Javascript files and code is created, edited and managed.

## Editor Utilities

The Editor Utilities can be found at the bottom of the Editor section and includes a Parsley code bank, publish history, access to an instance's media, webfonts, meta tags and other `head` items, as well as links to documentation.

## Entry Settings

Entry Settings consist of meta data and SEO settings for a Page or Page Group entry. Data set entries do not have settings.

## Globals

Globals \(formerly called Content Clippings\) is a unique dataset that every Zesty.io instance has. Clippings has fields for the static content used on multiple pages or endpoints on the instance, such as the logo, site name and footer/copyright text.

## Headless Sets

Headless Sets \(formerly called Data Sets\) are a type of content model. Headless Sets do not have paths or view files associated with them. Headless Sets, like all content models, are globally available with Parsley using the reference name. Use headless sets for repeated design elements on a page, such as homepage sliders, or FAQ.

## Health Section

The Health Section \(formerly called Health tab or SEO tab\) provides an interface to manage redirects, create a robot.txt, and crawl an instance for broken links.

## Instance

An Instance is a single account \(website/web instance\) in Zesty.io. Each instance is a collection of content models, content entries, and files for generating websites, endpoints and data feeds.

## Instances Dashboard

The Instances Dashboard is the homescreen of the accounts interface. It lists all of the instances a user has access to, a prompt to create new instances, and will display any open invites.

## Instance Settings Drawer

The Instance Settings Drawer contains an instance's administrative settings such as domain, user access, adding a team, and more. The drawer is accessed via the Accounts interface's instance card which has a cog icon which opens the instance settings drawer when clicked.

## LESS Variables

LESS Variables are variables you can access and edit through the Schema Section \(formerly called Config Tab\) using a non-technical interface to update colors, fonts, and other design elements. LESS Variables can also be access via the palette icon in the Editor section.

## Live Preview

The Live Preview is a separate window to view the preview version of your instance. The window loads the view you're working on and refreshes on save.

## Loader

The Loader is a special snippet file included in and required on every Zesty.io instance. The loader creates the body of the page and is loaded inside of a page's &lt;body&gt; tags. It's common to include global elements such as headers and footers in the loader file too. At minimum the loader _must_ have the Parsley call `{{ current_view }}` in order to view any content.

## Media Folders

Media Folders or groups are located under the top-level Media Bin and are used for organizing an instance's media files.

## Media Section

The Media Section is for uploading and organizing an instance's media.

## Page Group

Page Groups \(also known as Page Sets or Group with a View\) are type of Content Model. Page group entries all share a view file for their template in the Editor tab, have meta info and urls paths, and are displayed in a table view in the Content Tab. Used for groups of like pages that share a parent page like articles or team members.

## Parsley

Parsley is the contextual templating language of Zesty.io. Parsley is used inline with HTML and other markup languages to dynamically reference content and data from the Content section of Zesty.io. Parsley uses double curly braces or braces `{{ }}` to open and close template expressions. Inside these braces a developer can use Parsley functions, reference content schema properties, and create database queries. These templating expressions are written alongside standard HTML.

## Parsley Reference Name

The Parsley Reference Name is a user-set value that's used to reference a content model or field using Parsley.

## Publishing Sidebar

The Publishing Sidebar is located to the right of the content editing view.

## Schema Section

The Schema Section \(formerly called Config Tab\) controls the instance settings, LESS variables, and content structure, including creating and editing content models and fields.

## Single Instance Overview

The Single Instance Overview is a view in the accounts interface providing details and options for an instance and its users and teams. It is accessed through the gear icon in the grid view and in the list view is accessed by selecting an instance.

## Single Page

The Single Page is a type of content model. Single pages can be used to create a single content entry listed in the content tab. Each single page entry is connected to a view file in the editor and has meta info and a url path.

## Site Crawler

Site Crawler will check your site for any bad links and suggest ways to fix them. You can find it in the Health Section.

## Snippet

A snippet is a file in the Editor that contains a piece of code that is abstracted from a view\(s\). Snippets are often used for repetitive pieces of code such as a header or footer and for complex pieces of codes to simplify a view. To add a snippet in a view use the [Parsley include](https://zesty.org/services/web-engine/introduction-to-parsley/parsley-index#include) call.

## Support Page

The Support Page is a view in the Accounts interface which shows users how to access various channels of support such as Slack, email, and documentation.

## Table View

The Table View is a view in the Content Section displaying all the entries of a Content Model as a table, with field names as column headers and each entry has its own row.

## ZUID

ZUID stands for Zesty.io Unique ID. A ZUID is a unique identifier assigned to every component within Zesty.io, including each instance, content model, field, view, content item, user, role, ream, and blueprint. Relationships in Zesty.io are stored by their ZUID.

